ECS 163 - UC Davis - Project 2 - Interactive Visualization Interface 

In Project #1, you created a "visual data story" by implementing static charts that answered a set of questions. This project takes the next step, which is to create an interactive, visual analytics-based interface that allows user-guided exploration and analysis.

Your interface will be D3-based and include both an overview and detail view of the data, allowing for analysis at different levels of granularity. You are required to use at least 3 visualization techniques showing the data for at least 2 levels of detail. For example, if you have a spatial dataset, your overview might show a map of the USA. Selecting a state might show specific detailed data views based on your selection.

Your system must also have some type of multi-selection filtering. Continuing the states example, you could select multiple states to show in the detail view. Mult-selection means you can select more than one data point. As another example, you could implement a time filter where you can choose 1 or more timesteps. Here, it might make sense to filter both the overview and detail view based on the time selection. For more arbitrary datasets, you might filter by choosing one or more data categories or a range of data values. You can use this filtering to go between your overview(s) and detail view(s), you can use it a subset of the detail view, or it can be a part of both views.

One of the main points of this project is that your views are connected. That is, there should be a flow between the views, where you interact with one and it updates others; they shouldn't be independent or standalone from each other. You're not creating a data story here, but instead making a connected, navigable system.

Remember to apply principles from lectures and readings! Trying different techniques may lead to finding ones that work better! Carefully consider the marks, channels, color palettes, and interactions you want to include. Just because you find a D3 example that does it one way, that doesn't mean it's necessarily the correct way. For example, this bubble chart example uses several colors. Do they have a connection, or are they randomly assigned to each item?

In addition to creating your interface, this project contains an evaluation step. When your system is finished, coordinate with another student in the class. Demo your application and let him/her play around with it. That student will give feedback, things like what s/he likes about the system, what could be improved upon, and ways the system could be expanded in the future. You will include their qualitative commentary/critiquing in your final project write-up. (Note that you do not have to implement any their recommendations or fix their critiques, this is instead a way for you to practice getting feedback and to consider alternative or improved ways to implement future projects.)

Similar to Project 1, you may find it necessary to break your chosen dataset up into pieces, or aggregate it together into high-level views, especially if the chosen dataset is large! This will let your interface load faster and allow you to include more interaction with it, since you'll only have to reference the specific parts/granularities that you are currently viewing or interacting with.
